# Tech-vs-People_Final-Project
This is my final project for my Quantitative Research Methods course where I analyzed effects of race, age, sex, income, religion, wealth, and level of education completed on new technology, specifically measuring whether or not individuals feel that implementing new technology in the workforce is beneficial and a good idea. 
## **Instructions**
To access and utilize the script, open the "elias2-chi2.R" file, which contains the code for my findings. To access the dataset, please utilize the GSS Data Explorer exclusively using variables and data from 2022.
## **Data**
My research uses data collected by the General Social Survey. The General Social Survey (GSS) interviews respondents of ages 18 and older from the United States in order to record and track changing beliefs and opinions about a wide variety of different topics and questions. Their data collection also involves assigning respondents to one of three different ballots, A, B, and C, where each ballot is composed of different questions, meaning that not every ballot consists of every question the GSS asked for that year. For my data, my sample size consists of 270 of the total 4,149 respondents the GSS surveyed during 2022, and uses data from each of the three ballots. These surveys are also mostly conducted in person as interviews and occur every two years. This is one of the reasons why my sample total doesn’t match the number of total respondents, as surveys are administered to two samples in even-numbered years, and some questions are asked in only one of the two samples. When looking at our data we also excluded respondents who skipped the question, did not or could not choose an answer, those who simply had no answer, and those where the question was not applicable to them. Our target population is all adults in the United States who are part of the workforce and use and implement new science and technologies. We aim to find if these individuals believe technology is beneficial in the workforce based on our sample of respondents who provided answers to questions/categories from the GSS that can be seen in the table below.
## **Operationalization**
For my dependent variable of nextgen, my underlying concept was to observe if technology in the job setting is liked and spoken highly of. Respondents were asked Because of science and technology, there will be more opportunities for the next generation. This concept fits the model perfectly as so many different types of jobs exist and so many different kinds of technologies have and continue to be implemented in the goal of making workers’ lives easier. I would be able to gauge if technology is liked based on how much individuals saw it as an asset to their work. When coding I did not change anything that the GSS provided, as everything was formatted well and I wanted to see if there would be a significant difference between those who strongly agreed versus only simply agreed, and those who strongly disagree versus simply disagree.

For my independent variable of race, my underlying concept was to observe if race played a role in how workers felt towards technology. Respondents were asked, What race do you consider yourself? with the possible choices being White, Black, or Other. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing race and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how White individuals, Black individuals, and other race respondents felt about new technology implementation. This variable also did not need any tweaking or modification. 

For my independent variable of age, my underlying concept was to observe if age played a role in how workers felt towards technology. The age of the Respondents was recorded during the interview, with the age groups in 2022 ranging from 18 to 89 and older. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing age and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how individuals of a different age, and generations, felt about new technology implementation. This variable also did not need any recording due to its simplicity as the GSS record had a category for every adult age up to 90 years old, where those older than 89 were placed in one category.

For my independent variables of income and wealth, my underlying concept was to observe if one's income/wealth played a role in how workers felt towards technology. For income, Respondents were asked, did you earn any income from the previous year, and if so in which of these groups did your earnings from last year fall? These categories started at less than $1000, and increased from $1,000-$3,000, $3,000-$4,000,…$8000-$10,000, $10000-$15,000, $15000- $20,000, $20000-$25,000, and $25000 OR MORE. For wealth, Respondents were asked to please estimate your total wealth. The categories ranged from Less than $5,000, $5,000 to $20,000, $20,000 to $40,000, $40,000 to $75,000, $75,000 to $100,000, $100,000 to $150,000, $150,000 to $250,000, $250,000 to $500,000, $500,000 to $1 million, $1 million to $2 million, $2 million to $3 million, $3 million to $4 million, $4 million to $5 million, $5 million to $10 million, and Above $10 million. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing one’s income/wealth and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how an individual's money earnings, from the rock bottom to the very top, respondents felt about new technology implementation. These variables also did not need any modification either when it came to coding due to the categories being simple and separate when the GSS went about conducting their research.

For my independent variable of educ, my underlying concept was to observe if the amount of schooling an individual had played a role in how workers felt towards technology. Respondents were asked about the highest year of school completed, starting at no schooling at all, and ranging from each grade from 1st grade to 8 or more years of college. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing educ and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how someone's amount of schooling and education could impact the way they feel about new technology implementation. This variable also did not need any tweaking or modification when it came to coding as the GSS made each year of schooling its own category.

For my independent variable of sex, my underlying concept was to observe if sex played a role in how workers felt towards technology. Respondents were asked to give their sex, with the possible choices being Male and Female. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing sex and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how Male and Female individuals differed in the way they felt about new technology implementation. This variable was slightly recoded to leave out the very few respondents who did not answer/skip the question, or were unsure.

For my final independent variable of religion, my underlying concept was to observe if religion played a role in how workers felt towards technology. Respondents were asked, What is your religious preference?  Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion, or no religion? The GSS recorded answers of respondents who answered, Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, None, Other, Buddhism, Hinduism, Other eastern religions, Muslim/islam, Orthodox-christian, Christian, Native american, and Inter-nondenominational. This concept perfectly fits the model as there are observable trends when crossing religion and nextgen results from the GSS, allowing me to observe how individuals who follow different, or no, religions differ in the way they feel about new technology implementation. This variable was the most recoded variable I used, as I recorded this variable into 3 groups, that being Christian, Other, and None. I did this as many choices were branches of Christianity, and many categories had relatively low number of responses, leading me to add them to the preexisting Other category. This makes it easier when analyzing the data.

Based on the data, the only relationship that was statistically significant was that of income and nextgen. A p-value of less than 0.05 for the relationship between income and agreement on new technology implementation indicates that this result is statistically significant, and thus we can be confident a relationship between the two exists. Additionally, R calculated that for every 1 percent increase in income, the probability of agreeing that new technology is beneficial increases by 16 percent. This more than suggests a clear and measurable link between income and trust in technology adoption in the workforce.
